there's another totally different but
complementary way to use inheritance
known as implementation inheritance and
we're going to see that in the context
of something known as a default method
so for better or worse java also allows
what's called implementation inheritance
and contrast to what we see books all
before whenever we use implementation
inheritance we're going to inherit not
just what the list should do but also
how so instead of just getting a list of
all the things that a list should be
able to do we're going to say how to do
it the way to do this is we're going to
use the default keyword to specify a
method that all subclasses will be able
to use subscri the top so let's do in
this case the keyword we need is default
to new one outside height default and
then i'm going to say public void print
and then here rather than putting a
semicolon we are going to provide this
to any list that implements with 61 be
the Prince to lift works for any kind of
list now obviously this method can't try
and access instance variables because
there are no instance variables here
instead we're going to use these methods
to do it so you might consider how you
would do that but i'm just going to
spoil it pretty quickly up to you so i'm
going to start by saying int I equals 0
and then as long as I is less than sighs
I'm just going to print out the ice item
which I can get by doing get I all out
of space to make it look nice and i'll
say i equals I Plusle okay so simple
enough how do we actually use this
method well we can just go back to it's
a demo and here we have okay well this
is some list equals new atlas and
because s list implements list 61b that
print method will appear in the list
there it is print okay because that's
part of what being a list is all about
against you implemented it for free so
in this case if I run my code I'll get
back elk if I actually want to see it do
something interesting we can do add last
dwell on
existential crises I don't know knows
what else do these days I'm guessing I'm
kind of known a look okay so if we run
this code hopefully it should print them
out in order as a demo and there we go
so I printed out just fine good job with
61 be so that's a default map now
actually i'm going to show you a
slightly different way to write loops
now it's kind of divorce from the rest
of the lecture but it's something that i
ran out of time to do in a previous
lecture so let's do it now so i'm going
to make an observation that's often when
you write a loop there's this certain
pattern you have a line that initializes
a variable you have a check that
determines that the loop should run and
then finally you have some kind of
iteration or increment something that
increases whatever my counters so there
exists another constructs in Java which
looks something like this it goes for
initialization before in it check it
erase okay so what does it mean to
initialize i'm going to say for rent i
equals 0 what's my check I is less than
sighs and what's the thing I do at the
end of the loop i equals I plus 1 so
this right here is the same thing as
this code right here but it's all on one
line now often I try and tell people not
to be clever when their programming but
this is something so common in languages
that even though it's a little bit weird
syntax everybody will know it if you
don't know it yet you're going to see it
a lot so may as well learn it right now
so at that point I just move this inside
of the loop and when I run it it'll work
just fine so try that out maybe you'd
use the visualizer to see exactly what's
going on later but we can run it just to
make sure we didn't break anything right
now okay good so while loops not as goes
for loops for the most part these are
considered more you know people use the
term pythonic loops that feel like
Python this is more Jove onyx I guess
I've never heard that term but I made it
up now so what have we achieved well our
interface has not only a list of what a
list can do but also how you can print a
list I have one question for you then is
this method efficient so we have four
possible answers 1 it is inefficient for
both a lists and s less
to its sufficient for a list only
necklace only or finally the last of the
pole so think about that for a moment
and I'm letting you and being a little
open-ended about what efficiency means
okay so how do we think about this well
I guess one way we can appeal to this or
figure out this question is look at a
list and see how it works so get it is
going to be fast and a list because it
immediately gets all the items whereas
we look at s list what do we have to do
again let's see how did it work and use
them at scanning react get okay actually
yeah there's a lot of work we've got to
iterate through some big ol a list not
so great okay so in this case it is
efficient for a lift but inefficient for
s list and that's because get has to
work its way all the way through the
lips the next video we'll talk about how
we can deal with this but that's
basically what we get out of this
implementation inheritance idea is the
ability to not have to write a print
method if we don't want to there's no
print method and s list yet we can print
them all the same